# cybersecurity-portfolio
A portfolio for showcasing my progress and achievements in cybersecurity.
#About Me
Name: Diedra Cobb
Hometown: Urbana, IL, USA.
The IT field interests me because I love solving problems, and I love a good and healthy challenge. My current experience in IT includes having worked with SAS, html, and Windows software.   
After completing this course, I'd like to get a Master's Degree in a related field or to get a great paying job that will allow me to have a healthy work/family balance. 
I am very proud that I ran a home healthcare business for 4 years, where I incorporated both holistic healing and traditional medical methods in order to help my clients.

2025/03/03
Today we were introduced to all of the cybersecurity program staff, we received our laptop computers, we completed some documents online for Ms. Pope, we went over the history of Windows and how to get to the Run function for Linux, we used the Run function to set up a new account for ourselves on our laptops, we did a 2 lies and 1 truth about ourselves ice breaker, we took a tour of the City of Refuge campus, we were served both breakfast and lunch, and it was a great first day!

2025/03/04
Our teacher for this week is Mr. Adam Bricker (Adam.Bricker@Proton.me) . We learned that Cybersecurity Analysts study how to manipulate behavior based upon the velocity of trust. In cybersecurity, it is highly beneficial to learn scripting languages and AI to automate processes. We must exercise humility in our work because there will be many days where we will, most likely, not receive any praise for our ongoing efforts. We learned about the power of sleep, good habits, and appropriate mental models. We learned the 7 Essential Life Skills: Humility, Discipline, Curiosity, Collaboration, Critical Thinking, Technical, and Grit/Agency Under Duress. We discussed how identity is largely made up of the rules that I tie to myself. I must determine if a thing is worthy of my committment, so I must ask myself if it is the gift that I want to give myself and then become indistractable on my journey to achieve it. Once enough confidence is reached to soundly move forward, do it!, don't get stuck in analysis paralysis. My efforts will undergo compounding, so trust the process. The best time to test myself for learning is right after I've learned the knowledge. The best way to absorb knowledge is to take it in the first time with intentionality, and then to teach it to someone out loud, as though speaking to an 8th grader. Writing helps to develop clarity of what I want and what to say no to. In order to achieve my goals and to maintain balance in my life, it is important to have good habits and routines and to speak truth in love. We learn best through stories, games, and small groups of people engaged in debate. It is important to humble myself and to examine things from various perspectives; both offense and defense. I am the average of the 5 people that I spend the most time with; whether dead or alive, near or far. In life, it is important to have courage, which is practical judgement to face our fears and to act; it is the foundation of all of the virtues. 

2025/03/05
My WHY must be bigger than my why not! Today's focus is on habits.  The more that I tie my habits to my identity, it dramatically increases my ability to achieve my goal. Small increments of improvement are more impactful than burning myself out with massive action. City of Refuge Founder, Mr. Bruce, gave us 4 Principles to Implement: be prompt, be prepared, be passionate, and be present; which unlocks the 5th principle: we will perform. The word 'Character' is derived from the Greek word 'Karatos', which means to carve a way through all of the scars to get to the best of who we truly are. It is wise to enter with grace and to exit with grace! Ask for help when I need it. Find someone who I share a goal with, be honest about the issue, and be sure that the share similar views as I do about it. I must play to my strengths in order to position myself for success, and get away from my weaknesses. Atomic Habits: Make it obvious, Make it attractive, Make my good habits convenient and bad ones difficult, and Reward myself to feel successful. 4 Sources of Joy: Seeing the fruits of my labor, learning itself, being in a loving and safe environment, and serving others. There is no substitute for time on task/experience. Practice creating a Home Security Operations Center (SOC). Pick topics of interest to me and create podcasts or YouTube videos with me teaching the skills and attach them to my LinkedIn page. Be sure to take a significant break after 90 minutes of studying. It's best to practice hands on skills at night, as it enhances muscle memory.  Use the following measures for basic security: use a password manager (Proton), have Multifactor Authentification (MFA) set up on every account, use a Virtual Private Network (VPN), use the Google Authenticator app, and use an antivirus product (Microsoft Defender, Crowdstrike, Sofos, Vast, Kaspurski, etc.). Set up systems and consistently work them in order to achieve my goals. The Dark Web is illegal to participate in and/or to buy things from, stay away (unless properly authorized by my job)! TikTok takes an entire fingerprint of the information on my device and sends it to the Chinese government, stay away (unless for business purposes and using proper protections)! A 'stealth founder' is a company that is not on the web.

2025/03/06
Today I learned about the power of amazement and how hyperfocusing on the positive aspects of a subject or thing, greatly aides in becoming indistractable. I am the story that I tell myself and I must trust the process. Be in awe of both the journey that I get to choose for myself and the fruits of my labor! I must be clear and intentional about who I am, what I choose for myself and why. I am the story that I tell myself. What is my brand?  I am a problem solver, I show up prepared to meetings, I get good sleep, I eat healthy food, I put joy in my emails, I live an adventurous life with no stress, and I watch podcasts about industry trends, technical skills and how to get a job in cybersecurity. Process saves me from the poverty of my intentions, and things with emotional connection improve my memory, so I use that to my advantage. During an interview, it's not just about what I say to the interviewer, but also, how I make them feel. If I want to achieve my goals, the biggest factor is consistency. 90% of my success is showing up. I focus on systems and discipline. I am clear about my definition of success. I ask myself if I am happy, stable, and proud of myself? If I do not have a clear understanding of how people/things are elevating my happiness and success, they are most likely a distraction! I master my internal and external triggers, and prevent distraction with pacts (social, monetary, and identity based). As I enter different phases of my growth, my mentors will likely need to change. 

2025/03/07
We broke up into groups today and played a game where we were flying a space ship that was giving us commands that we had to keep up with in order to keep the ship from breaking down and losing the round. It was a competition where each team was trying to get to the highest level and it was a , ho twe game that required us to be creative and to implement principles such as trust, humility, being indistractable, courageous, curious, and much more. It was exciting and a great way to get to know some of our classmates more closely. Katrice's team won with a high score of reaching level 17. We spoke about OAR (Ownership [given], accountability [held], and responsibility [accepted]) and being careful of accepting agreements without understanding what they entail/mean. We also spoke about interviewing for Cybersecurity and not saying anything that is not relevant to what I bring to the job. Just get the job before ever speaking of any accomodations that I may need. And when the interviewer ask what questions that I have for them at the end of the interview, ask them, "from what you know about me, what can I do to better position myself for a position like this?" and write a letter thanking them for the interview afterwards. 3 things interviewers look for: 1. Someone who demonstrates their critical thinking skills. Speak about the skills/processes that I used to accomplish the tasks that I speak of. 2. Do they see me as part of their tribe? 3. Let them know you will do what you can to fit. 3. Amy I memorable? Rehearse a 2 minute version of my life story (don't talk too much!) Research how to tell my life story during an interview. Practice this. Here I am, this is where I want to be, and tell how I plan to get there. Don't get into a psychological battle during the interview. Just flow. Keep the environment safe.

2025/03/10
We learned about Temporary memory and long term memory. We learned about the expansion slots like the USB, Integrated sound, Integrated video, It was recommended that we get the Linux certifiocation through LPI. Take some Udemy classes to supplement our learning. 

2025/03/11
I missed the virtualization lecture due to a court hearing, so I am watching videos on it and I got notes from my Sha-mia. We learned about Linux today and we worked on installing the VMware Workstation. 

2025/03/12
Both Paul Farley (Military Veteran) (Paul.Farley@Trustedsec.com) from Trusted Sec, NCR, Equifax, etc. and Ron Cofield (rcofield@cityofrefugeatl.org) are spoke to us. Email Ron my 3 values and why. Value-purpose cards, my top 3: (Spirituality/Money floater)  Legacy, Passion, Creativity/Innovation. Next three:Family, Money, Quality Time. Think about how to tell my life story the seminol events related to the career field, " I was doing this and then, this happened..."  "I woke up one day and decided this wasn't good enough for me or my family, so I decided to..." This is the turn I made to get where I am, and the value of it all. 7 Habits of Highly Effective People. #1 BE PROACTIVE, more than merely taking initiative. We can subordinate our feelings to our values. We have the responsibility to make things happen.

2025/03/13
We talked about hypervisor 1 and 2. We went over essential Linux commands. We went over key terms like kernel, shell, and terminal.

2025/03/14

2025/03/17
Today we discussed Linux we discussed IAM (Identification and Access Management), which includes Identification (making a claim about who I am), Authentication (proving who I am through: Somewhere I am [GPS], Somthing I know, something I am [fingerprint, voice, retina scan], something I have [key, token, badge], or something I do [captcha, the gate of my walk]), Authorization (granting rights and permissions), Accounting (Logging and auditing). Linux User Management, the root ID is 0 by default. There are user accounts and the group accounts. There are 2 types of user accounts: standard and service. The system service user "server" serves a role, web based (Apache, Nginx), Email (Outlook, Exchange), Database (MS SQL, NO SQL, MY SQL), File (MS Windows 2019, Ubuntu Server, Red Hat Linux Server). Groups purpose can be demonstrated as an accounting department that has 50 people broken up into 3 sections, and each group is assigned permissions that are specifically relevant to the functions/purpose of each group. we reviewed how to access locally stored account information and shadow, which displays and manipulates password information.

2025/03/18 Join TAG (Technology Association of Georgia), all of the tech people belong to TAG. A group of Cybersecurity leaders visited our class as they toured the City of Refuge. They were leaders from OpenGo, Scientific Games, RICE, PGA Tour, and Home Depot. The book See Yourself in Cybersecurity by Ed Adams was recommended to help us identify which area of Cybersecurity best fits us. Also, it is advised that we focus on getting in the door and not pissing anyone off. Today in class, we went further into our learning about Linux authorization, ownership, and permissions (including umask). We briefly discussed the use of cryptographic algorithms as secure authentication tools. 

2025/03/19 
Former City of Refuge Cybersecurity student, Donovan Howard (678-399-0797), came to speak to us. He runs the Applications Security Program for Aaron's Furniture. It took him 2 months from the end of the Cybersecurity program to get hired and he almost gave up on the hiring process because of the cut throat competition that exists to land a job and all of the rejections that he got during his job search journey. His biggest advice is that because we are beginners and not in the top 1% of the Cybersecurity talent pool, we must rely upon making ourselves be seen through applying solid networking skills. Get as many mentor connections as I can because they provide valuable advise and because a mentor can turn into a sponsor; interact about 2 times per month. Be hungry, but not thirsty! Do not present as being desperate for a job, simply state what I desire and get contact information to tactfully follow up. Ask questions from the level above me that drives the conversation. Get to know my colleagues, ask questions of my immediate work team, and don't be afraid to shadow ones who are willing to share their expertise; venturing outside of my work team can be dangerous to my job security, so it is advised to just focus on learning my area first and foremost. Study to bring myself up to speed in whatever position that I land, and continue to study to keep my skills sharp even while I am still looking for a job. Watch AI, Cloud, and Cybersecurity shows. It needs to become part of my identity. Time management is everything.  Mr. Paul Cohen had us do enneagrams today. I am a 2 (the helper) wing 5. Our assignment is to come up with 3 good attributes of the 2 personality type and 2 bad/ugly ones (don't ever share my worst weaknesses, they need to be bad/ugly that can also be seen as having an advantage to them). Go to Crystalknows and to the Enneagram Institute sites to access attributes that I can work with.  
